Add initial flower next migration doc (#3267)
adap/flower: doc/source/how-to-upgrade-to-flower-next.rst

Upgrade to Flower Next
======================

Welcome to the migration guide for updating Flower to Flower Next! Whether you're a seasoned user
or just getting started, this guide will help you smoothly transition your existing setup to take
advantage of the latest features and improvements in Flower Next, starting from version 1.8. Let's dive in!

> 

Reviewer: Should we mention here at the beginning that this guides is about the "compatibility layer" in Flower Next, and that another guide will follow (or this will be updated) showing how to run Flower Next end-to-end ?

Author: Yes, good point. I've added it.

Install update
--------------

Here's how to update an existing installation of Flower to Flower Next with ``pip``:

.. code-block:: bash
    
    $ python -m pip install -U flwr

or if you need Flower Next with simulation:

.. code-block:: bash
    
    $ python -m pip install -U flwr[simulation]

Dependencies
------------
Ensure you set the following version constraint in your ``requirements.txt``

.. code-block:: 

    flwr>=1.8.0,<2.0

or ``pyproject.toml``:

.. code-block:: toml

    dependencies = ["flwr>=1.8.0,2.0"]

Required changes
----------------

In Flower Next, the *infrastructure* and *application layers* have been decoupled.
Therefore, the main changes are in the setup of the ``SuperNode``, ``ClientApp`,
``ServerApp`` and execution of federated learning. These are the following non-breaking
changes that require manual updates.

``SuperNode``/``ClientApp``
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> - Use ``flwr.client.ClientApp(client_fn)`` instead of ``flwr.client.start_client(server_address, client)``.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Wrap your existing client with ``flwr.client.ClientApp()`` instead of launching it via ``flwr.client.start_client()``.
```

Reviewer: Should we point readers to the documentation of each of these classes?

Author: Good suggestion. I'll add them.

  Here's an example:

.. code-block:: python

    # Flower 1.8
    def client_fn(cid: str):
        return flwr.client.FlowerClient().to_client() 
    
    app = flwr.client.ClientApp(
       client_fn=client_fn,
    )

    # Flower 1.7
    if __name__ == "__main__":
        flwr.client.start_client(
           server_address="127.0.0.1:8080",
           client=flwr.client.FlowerClient().to_client(),
        )

``ServerApp``
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> - Use ``flwr.server.ServerApp(config, strategy)`` instead of ``flwr.server.start_server(server_address, config, strategy)``.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Wrap your existing strategy with ``flwr.server.ServerApp()`` instead of  starting the server via ``flwr.server.start_server()``.
```

  Here's an example:

.. code-block:: python

    # Flower 1.8
    app = flwr.server.ServerApp(
        config=config,
        strategy=strategy,
    )

    # Flower 1.7
    if __name__ == "__main__":
        flwr.server.start_server(
            server_address="0.0.0.0:8080",
            config=config,
            strategy=strategy,
        )

Deployment
~~~~~~~~~~
Run the ``SuperLink`` before running ``ServerApp`` and ``SuperNode`` instead of executing `client.py` and

> `server.py` as Python scripts. Here's an example:

Reviewer: Can we point to an example showing how to run it without the `--insecure`? I believe the `bare-https` E2E test and `tf-advanced` example shows it (but not in Flower Next -- maybe it's easy to adapt it?)

Author: I've adapted the `bare-https` example to this guide.

.. code-block:: bash
    
    # Start a Superlink
    $ flower-superlink --insecure

    # In a new terminal window, start a long-running SuperNode
    $ flower-client-app client:app --insecure

    # In another terminal window, start a long-running SuperNode (at least 2 SuperNodes are required)
    $ flower-client-app client:app --insecure

    # In another terminal window, run the apps
    $ flower-server-app server:app --insecure

Simulation
~~~~~~~~~~

> - Use ``flwr.client.ClientApp()`` and ``flwr.server.ServerApp()`` instead of ``flwr.simulation.start_simulation()``.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Wrap your existing client and strategy with ``flwr.client.ClientApp()`` and ``flwr.server.ServerApp()`` respectively. There is no need of using  ``flwr.simulation.start_simulation()`` anymore.
```

  Here's an example:

.. code-block:: python

    # Flower 1.8
    def client_fn(cid: str):
        return flwr.client.FlowerClient().to_client() 
    
    client = flwr.client.ClientApp(
       client_fn=client_fn,
    )

    server = flwr.server.ServerApp(
        config=config,
        strategy=strategy,
    )

    # Flower 1.7
    if __name__ == "__main__":
        flwr.simulation.start_simulation(
            ...
        )

- Run ``flower-simulation`` in CLI and point to the ``server``/``client`` object in the code instead of
  executing the Python script. Here's an example (assuming the ``server`` and ``client`` are in a ``sim.py`` file):

.. code-block:: bash

    # Flower 1.8
    $ flower-simulation --client-app=sim:client --server-app=sim:server --num-supernodes=100

    # Flower 1.7

>     $ python sim.py

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    $ python <your_script>.py
```

- Change default resources for each ``ClientApp`` using the ``--backend-config`` argument instead of custom arguments

>   parsed by ``argparse``. Here's an example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  parsed by, for example, ``argparse``. Here's an example:
```

Author: Addressed in my earlier comment.

.. code-block:: bash

    # Flower 1.8
    $ flower-simulation --client-app=sim:client --server-app=sim:server --num-supernodes=100 \
        --backend-config='{"client_resources": {"num_cpus":2, "num_gpus":0.25}}'

    # Flower 1.7

>     $ python sim.py --num_cpus=2 --num_gpus=0.25

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    # specify `client_resources` when launching `flwr.simulation.start_simulation()`
```

Reviewer: I think it would be better to replace it because the `python sim.py --num_cpus=2 ...` it only works if your `sim.py` is designed to accept those (and pass them to `start_simulation()`. Maybe there is a better way of conveying this idea than what i propose above?

Author: Good point. I've revised the sentence to clarify along the lines that the Flower Next approach "passes command line arguments" and the old approach as "setting the `client_resources` argument in `start_simulation()`".

    $ flower-client-app client:app --insecure

    # In another terminal window, run the apps
    $ flower-server-app server:app --insecure

- Here's another example to start with HTTPS. Use the ``--certificates`` command line
  argument to pass paths to (CA certificate, server certificate, and server private key).

.. code-block:: bash

    # Start a secure Superlink
    $ flower-superlink --certificates \
        <your-ca-cert-filepath> \
        <your-server-cert-filepath> \
        <your-privatekey-filepath>

    # In a new terminal window, start a long-running secure SuperNode
    $ flower-client-app client:app \
        --root-certificates <your-ca-cert-filepath> \
        --server 127.0.0.1:9092

    # In another terminal window, start a long-running secure SuperNode (at least 2 SuperNodes are required)
    $ flower-client-app client:app \
        --root-certificates <your-ca-cert-filepath> \
        --server 127.0.0.1:9092

    # In another terminal window, run the apps
    $ flower-server-app server:app \
        --root-certificates <your-ca-cert-filepath> \
        --server 127.0.0.1:9091

Simulation

> ~~~~~~~~~~

Reviewer 2: Should we add a section on notebooks after this section?

Author: Good idea, I've updated it.

        strategy=strategy,
    )

    # Flower 1.7
    if __name__ == "__main__":
        flwr.simulation.start_simulation(
            ...
        )

- Run |runsim_link|_ in CLI and point to the ``server``/``client`` object in the
  code instead of executing the Python script. Here's an example (assuming the
  ``server`` and ``client`` are in a ``sim.py`` file):

.. code-block:: bash

    # Flower 1.8
    $ flower-simulation --client-app=sim:client --server-app=sim:server --num-supernodes=100

    # Flower 1.7
    $ python <your_script>.py

- Set default resources for each |clientapp_link|_ using the ``--backend-config`` command
  line argument instead of setting the ``client_resources`` argument in
  |startsim_link|_. Here's an example:

.. code-block:: bash

    # Flower 1.8
    $ flower-simulation --client-app=sim:client --server-app=sim:server --num-supernodes=100 \
        --backend-config='{"client_resources": {"num_cpus":2, "num_gpus":0.25}}'

.. code-block:: python

    # Flower 1.7 (in <your_script>.py)
    hist = flwr.simulation.start_simulation(
        ...
        client_resources = {'num_cpus': 2, "num_gpus": 0.25}
    )

Further help
------------

> Some official `Flower code examples <https://github.com/adap/flower/tree/main/examples>`_ are already

Reviewer 2: Let's link to the website here:
```suggestion
Some official `Flower code examples <https://flower.ai/docs/examples/>`_ are already
```
